CHI 2014 Student Game Competition

Reviews of submission #103: "Drunken Ed - A Balance Game for Public Large
Screen Displays"

------------------------ Submission 103, Review 1 ------------------------

Overall rating:     26.5  (scale is 6..35; 35 is best)

Rate the game

   4.5 . . . Between possibly accept and strong accept 

Enjoyment

   4.0 

Execution

   3.5 

Innovative

   3.5 

Technology

   3.0 

Games for a Purpose

   N/A

Innovative Interface

   The interface used was basically a kinect, and although the hardware is
   not exactly innovative, it was used in a slightly innovative way of
   making people bend/jump to move the character

Innovative Game Design

   I would say , that the game design was nicely done in conjunction with
   the interface. Its hard for characters to move and at the same time make
   the player feel immersive, with a kinect camera because of spatial
   restrictions, but they developed good gestures in conjunction with a
   sort-of innovative game design. 

Rate the Paper

   4.0 - Possibly Accept: I would argue for accepting this paper 

Review of Paper

   The paper , in my opinion brilliantly explains the whole process they
   went through while developing this game. They talk about their design
   principles and playtests they conducted, and it was really interesting to
   read about that. They definitely bring out the point of making games for
   public and large displays but it would have been nice to know what
   challenges they faced and why they took certain design decisions. 

Rate the Overall Submission

   4.0 - Possibly Accept:This submission should likely be a finalist 

Expertise

   2  (Passing Knowledge)

The Review

   There are quite a few kinect games , and balancing games I kept in mind
   while judging this game. 
   A lot of kinect games face the problem of restricting the movement of the
   player mainly because the kinect has a limited range. I felt that this
   game did a good job of justifying the players gestures, they basically
   made the players feel like they are only balancing a drunken person. A
   lot for balancing games have been made before, especially for mobiles and
   they play well mainly because its about timing and making sure the
   character doesnt die, and getting the high score. Thus, playing it with
   kinect definitely feels a little bit different , and the jump seems to
   add another feature to it, but it does not really feel extremely
   innovative. 
   I feel like this game would help a lot in connecting people, mainly
   because its really fun and a lot of good moments seem to arise especially
   because of the rag doll. BUT, the game does not explicitly help players
   connect i.e. it does nothing int terms of helping players appreciate and
   understand the differences we see in people    

Areas for Improvement

   I would have personally loved to read more about the challenges they
   faced while making this game. They mainly talk about the whole process
   they went through for creating the game, but dont really talk about the
   challenges they were facing. Creating games for public and large displays
   is definitely hard, and would have been interesting to know what inspired
   their design decisions. 



